Jono/adds docs about storage (#179)
CerebriumAI/documentation: cerebrium/data-sharing-storage/persistent-storage.mdx

title: "Persistent Storage"

> ---

Reviewer: Should we still call this persistent storage? Is that obvious to a user that this is for file/volume commands?

Reviewer 2: "Persistent Volumes"

Cerebrium gives to access to persistent storage to store model weights and files.
This storage volume persists across your project, meaning that if
you refer to model weights or files created in a different app but in the same project, you're able to access them.

> This allows model weights to be loaded in more efficiently, as well as reduce the size of your app container images. Currently,

Reviewer: Maybe explain this a bit better of when a user would use this. Store generations from application, model weights etc. Its kind of clear here

```bash
Usage: cerebrium files ls [OPTIONS] REMOTE_PATH (Optional)

  List contents of persistent storage.

Options:
  -h, --help          Show this message and exit.

Examples:
  # List all files in the root directory
  cerebrium files ls

  # List all files in a specific folder
  cerebrium files ls sub_folder/
```

### Deleting files

To delete files or directories from your persistent storage, use the cerebrium files rm remote_path command. This command removes the specified file or directory from the persistent storage. Be careful, as this operation is irreversible.

```bash
Usage: cerebrium files rm [OPTIONS] REMOTE_PATH

  Remove a file or directory from persistent storage.

Options:
  -h, --help          Show this message and exit.

Examples:
  # Remove a specific file
  cerebrium files rm /file_name.txt

  # Remove a directory and all its contents
  cerebrium files rm /sub_folder/
```

### Real world example

```bash
wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/segment_anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth
cerebrium cp sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth segment-anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth
```

> As a simple example, suppose you have an external SAM model that you want to use in your custom deployment. You can download it to the cache

Reviewer: "download to cache"?

Reviewer 2: +, should be more like "download to a cache directoy on your persistent volume

> title: "Persistent Storage"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Persistent Volumes"
```

---

> Cerebrium gives to access to persistent storage to store model weights and files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cerebrium gives you access to persistent volumes to store model weights and files.
```

> This storage volume persists across your project, meaning that if

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This volume persists across your project, meaning that if
```

> you refer to model weights or files created in a different app but in the same project, you're able to access them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
you refer to model weights or files created in a different app (but in the same project), you're able to access them.
```

This allows model weights to be loaded in more efficiently, as well as reduce the size of your App container image.

### How it works

> Every Cerebrium Project comes with a 50Gb volume by default. This volume is mounted on all applications as `/persistent-storage`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every Cerebrium Project comes with a 100GB volume by default. This volume is mounted on all applications as `/persistent-storage`.
```

### Uploading files

> To upload files to persistent storage, you can use the `cerebrium volume cp local_path dest_path` command. This command copies files from your local machine to the specified destination path in the persistent storage. The dest_path is optional; if not provided, the files will be uploaded to the root of the persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To upload files to your persistent volume, you can use the `cerebrium volume cp local_path dest_path` command. This command copies files from your local machine to the specified destination path in the volume. The dest_path is optional; if not provided, the files will be uploaded to the root of the persistent volume.
```

```bash
Usage: cerebrium volume cp [OPTIONS] LOCAL_PATH REMOTE_PATH (Optional)

>   Copy contents to persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Copy contents to persistent volume.
```

Options:
  -h, --help          Show this message and exit.

Examples:
  # Copy a single file
  cerebrium volume cp src_file_name.txt # copies to /src_file_name.txt

  cerebrium volume cp src_file_name.txt dest_file_name.txt # copies to /dest_file_name.txt

  # Copy a directory
  cerebrium volume cp dir_name # copies to the root directory
  cerebrium volume cp dir_name sub_folder/ # copies to sub_folder/
```

### Listing files

> To list the files in your persistent storage, you can use the cerebrium volume ls [remote_path] command. This command lists all files and directories within the specified remote_path. If no remote_path is provided, it lists the contents of the root directory of the persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To list the files on your persistent volume, you can use the cerebrium volume ls [remote_path] command. This command lists all files and directories within the specified remote_path. If no remote_path is provided, it lists the contents of the root directory of the persistent volume.
```

```bash
Usage: cerebrium volume ls [OPTIONS] REMOTE_PATH (Optional)

>   List contents of persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  List contents of persistent volume.
```

Options:
  -h, --help          Show this message and exit.

Examples:
  # List all files in the root directory
  cerebrium volume ls

  # List all files in a specific folder
  cerebrium volume ls sub_folder/
```

### Deleting files

> To delete files or directories from your persistent storage, use the cerebrium volume rm remote_path command. This command removes the specified file or directory from the persistent storage. Be careful, as this operation is irreversible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To delete files or directories from your persistent volume, use the cerebrium volume rm remote_path command. This command removes the specified file or directory from the persistent volume. Be careful, as this operation is irreversible.
```

```bash
Usage: cerebrium volume rm [OPTIONS] REMOTE_PATH

>   Remove a file or directory from persistent storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Remove a file or directory from persistent volume.
```

Options:
  -h, --help          Show this message and exit.

Examples:
  # Remove a specific file
  cerebrium volume rm /file_name.txt

  # Remove a directory and all its contents
  cerebrium volume rm /sub_folder/
```

### Real world example

```bash
wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/segment_anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth
cerebrium cp sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth segment-anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth
```

> As a simple example, suppose you have an external SAM model that you want to use in your custom deployment. You can download it to the cache

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a simple example, suppose you have an external SAM model that you want to use in your custom deployment. You can download it to a cache directory on your persistent volume.
```

as such:

```python
import os
import torch

file_path = "/persistent-storage/segment-anything/sam_vit_h_4b8939.pth"

# Load the model
model = torch.jit.load(file_path)
... # Continue with your initialization
```

> Now, in later inference requests, the model loads from the persistent storage, instead of downloading again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, in later inference requests, the model loads from the persistent volume instead of downloading again.
```
